docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: home

hero:
  name: Claude Ketchup
  text: Stop Babysitting. Start Parallelizing.
  tagline: True automation with quality guarantees. Parallel productivity through trust.
  image:
    src: /hero.png
    alt: Claude Ketchup - From Babysitter to Bionic
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /getting-started
    - theme: alt
      text: The Quality Stack
      link: /ketchup-technique
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/BeOnAuto/claude-ketchup

features:
  - icon:
      src: /icon-janitor.png
    title: "The Problem: AI Babysitter"
    details: Every AI session demands your full attention. Watching, nudging, correcting. You can't walk away.
  - icon:
      src: /icon-architect.png
    title: "The Solution: Parallel Execution"
    details: Trust the system. Walk away. Open another worktree. Run 3-5 features in parallel.
  - icon:
      src: /icon-tcr.png
    title: TCR Discipline
    details: "<code>test && commit || revert</code>. Bad code auto-reverts. Problems can't ship."
  - icon:
      src: /icon-supervisor.png
    title: Supervisor AI
    details: An impartial AI validates every commit against your criteria. It reviews so you don't have to.
  - icon:
      src: /icon-parallel.png
    title: Auto-Continue
    details: Keeps going until the plan is done. No nudging required.
  - icon:
      src: /icon-coverage.png
    title: 100% Coverage
    details: Enforced by construction. Quality is guaranteed.
---

## The Quality Stack: Why You Can Walk Away

You can only parallelize if you trust the execution. The Quality Stack creates that trust:

| Component          | What It Does                               | Result                          |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| **Auto-Planner**   | Generates plan from your requirements      | No need to specify every detail |
| **Supervisor AI**  | Validates every commit against your criteria | Automated review               |
| **TCR Discipline** | Test && Commit \|\| Revert                 | Bad code auto-reverts           |
| **Auto-Continue**  | Keeps going until the plan is done         | No nudging required             |

The system is trustworthy. That's what frees you.

---

## Git Worktrees: The Multiplier

Git worktrees let you have multiple working directories from the same repo. Each on a different branch. Each isolated.

Combine with Ketchup:

| Worktree            | Feature               | Status               |
| ------------------- | --------------------- | -------------------- |
| `feature-auth`      | Authentication system | Ketchup executing... |
| `feature-payments`  | Payment integration   | Ketchup executing... |
| `feature-dashboard` | Admin dashboard       | Ketchup executing... |

Three features running simultaneously. All quality-validated.

| Approach                  | Features/Week |
| ------------------------- | ------------- |
| Manual coding             | 1             |
| AI-assisted (babysitting) | 1-2           |
| **Ketchup + Worktrees**   | **5-10**      |

The bottleneck becomes defining requirements, not executing them.

---

## Three Steps

### 1. Define

::: code-group

```bash [npm]
npm install -D claude-ketchup
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add -D claude-ketchup
```

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm add -D claude-ketchup --allow-build=claude-ketchup
```

```bash [bun]
bun add -D claude-ketchup --trust claude-ketchup
```

:::

Feed your PRD, Architecture.md, or requirements. Ketchup auto-generates the plan with Bottles, Bursts, and Dependencies. Review and approve.

### 2. Release

Start execution and walk away. The Supervisor validates every commit. Auto-continue keeps it going until done.

### 3. Multiply

Open another git worktree. Start another Ketchup instance. Three features. Five features. All in parallel.

**[Get Started →](/getting-started)**

Commit message:

docs(docs): update index.md with npx installation and fix numbering
- Replace package manager specific installation with 'npx claude-ketchup install'
- Fix section numbering (1. Install, 2. Define, 3. Release, 4. Multiply)
- Update GitHub repository link to correct organization
- Simplify installation instructions to single command

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: home

hero:
  name: Claude Ketchup
  text: Stop Babysitting. Start Parallelizing.
  tagline: True automation with quality guarantees. Parallel productivity through trust.
  image:
    src: /hero.png
    alt: Claude Ketchup - From Babysitter to Bionic
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /getting-started
    - theme: alt
      text: The Quality Stack
      link: /ketchup-technique
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/xolvio/claude-ketchup

features:
  - icon:
      src: /icon-janitor.png
    title: "The Problem: AI Babysitter"
    details: Every AI session demands your full attention. Watching, nudging, correcting. You can't walk away.
  - icon:
      src: /icon-architect.png
    title: "The Solution: Parallel Execution"
    details: Trust the system. Walk away. Open another worktree. Run 3-5 features in parallel.
  - icon:
      src: /icon-tcr.png
    title: TCR Discipline
    details: "<code>test && commit || revert</code>. Bad code auto-reverts. Problems can't ship."
  - icon:
      src: /icon-supervisor.png
    title: Supervisor AI
    details: An impartial AI validates every commit against your criteria. It reviews so you don't have to.
  - icon:
      src: /icon-parallel.png
    title: Auto-Continue
    details: Keeps going until the plan is done. No nudging required.
  - icon:
      src: /icon-coverage.png
    title: 100% Coverage
    details: Enforced by construction. Quality is guaranteed.
---

## The Quality Stack: Why You Can Walk Away

You can only parallelize if you trust the execution. The Quality Stack creates that trust:

| Component          | What It Does                               | Result                          |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| **Auto-Planner**   | Generates plan from your requirements      | No need to specify every detail |
| **Supervisor AI**  | Validates every commit against your criteria | Automated review               |
| **TCR Discipline** | Test && Commit \|\| Revert                 | Bad code auto-reverts           |
| **Auto-Continue**  | Keeps going until the plan is done         | No nudging required             |

The system is trustworthy. That's what frees you.

---

## Git Worktrees: The Multiplier

Git worktrees let you have multiple working directories from the same repo. Each on a different branch. Each isolated.

Combine with Ketchup:

| Worktree            | Feature               | Status               |
| ------------------- | --------------------- | -------------------- |
| `feature-auth`      | Authentication system | Ketchup executing... |
| `feature-payments`  | Payment integration   | Ketchup executing... |
| `feature-dashboard` | Admin dashboard       | Ketchup executing... |

Three features running simultaneously. All quality-validated.

| Approach                  | Features/Week |
| ------------------------- | ------------- |
| Manual coding             | 1             |
| AI-assisted (babysitting) | 1-2           |
| **Ketchup + Worktrees**   | **5-10**      |

The bottleneck becomes defining requirements, not executing them.

---

## Three Steps

### 1. Install

```bash
npx claude-ketchup install
```

That's it! This single command sets up everything you need.

### 2. Define

Feed your PRD, Architecture.md, or requirements. Ketchup auto-generates the plan with Bottles, Bursts, and Dependencies. Review and approve.

### 3. Release

Start execution and walk away. The Supervisor validates every commit. Auto-continue keeps it going until done.

### 4. Multiply

Open another git worktree. Start another Ketchup instance. Three features. Five features. All in parallel.

**[Get Started →](/getting-started)**
